{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Calibri;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\froman\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\kerning1\f0\fs22 My perspective on the analysis of teaching mathematics is eclectic and involves a blended both constructive news and information processing ideas.  Overall, I believe that the major consideration in teachers deliberations and for choosing of appropriate learning strategies and past and to is the problem of finding A kind of a "best fit" between the structure of the task and the structure of the person's packing that will result in the learning.  This requires that teachers must not only have a sufficient knowledge of mathematics on a good understanding of how their students cognitive schema the to be able to recognize if "see it".  Thus, the teachers need to access students schemas before it tempting to extend students prior knowledge.  Hence, it isimportant to listen to students continually and bass instruction on what they already know.  \lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
From either the constructive must work information processing and viewpoints, it is critical that teachers determine students ways of viewing the ideas.  In a borrowed for teachers to become aware of how students are thinking, communication and in the classroom as volatile.  Teachers need to develop practices and that allowed them to ask questions that promote students' understanding and I encourage students to ask questions.  Teachers need to learn to be flexible in a classroom by encouraging students and to call to work and become more responsible for the role learning improve communication in the classroom can allow teachers to accumulate data and may pop teaching directions based on the learning patterns that emerge\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Edward brooks (1831- 1912) in Philosophy of Arithmetic- A methods book for eldemtary teachers.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 "Mental powers of the mind are called ' Faculties" - \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 1. The intellect - ideas, htoghts\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 2. The sensibilities - emotions, affections\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 3. The will -  the pwer to decide ofr put orth voluntary actions"\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
"the mind is a spirtual activity and grows by its own ingerent energies. Mental exercise is thus the law of mental devlopmnt. As a muscle grows strong by use, so any faculty of the mind is devloped y its proper use and exercise. An inactive mind like an unused muscle becomes weak and unskifflul. \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 "Mental artithmeitc is a system of mientail gymnastics; thourgh it idt the mind grows strdon and tough, taking hold of dificuties with a will, laughing a tobstacles, and rejoicing in the ivestigatio of the intricate and profuound>" \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
\par
John Dewey\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 John Dewey and wrote his classic book experience and education and two explained up what he envisioned when he spoke of easing experiences in the classroom and.  And we'll meaning educators had taken dewey's ideas modifyd them up and use those ideas and what came to be known as progress of schools in the 1920s and 1930s.  As a result of the schools, dewey's theories came under harsh criticism of traditional educators who saw the schools as rooms filled with chaos that did not educate, but instead, produced nothing more as full of children who directed the teacher to instruct as a child felt it.  In qualifying his intentions and addressing mounting criticism to his theories education, Dewey gives a concise statement of his ideas about the needs, problems, and possibilities of education in this book\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 And a Dewey relates experience to education because of its natural link to educational purposes.  Then it has been shown that children learn to retain those concept by doing.  And young students, especially, learn better by hands on manipulatives as they are still in the concrete operational stage a metacognitive development as described by Piaget. Because they do not formally abstract concepts, their learning needs to be seen, felt, heard, and even tasted when appropriate.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Experience is also helps link the past with the present.  When organized with foresight, the student gains ability to see a connection of his present experiences with the ones he has previously acquired.  The thread of commonality is woven through his experiences that gives form and meaning to the present.  As planned experiences are accumulated of a child, he develops the sense of expectation for future experiences and modifies their definition as he \b0 draws\b  from past experiences.  This exploration for future experiences can be educationally sound \b0 if he\b  acquires a desire for different areas to grow in learning about the variety of subjects, and, continues to find a connection with the previous experiences.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 For Dewey, experience is as important aspect as educational philosophy, but without regard to the planning of those expenses.  Experience for experience sake does not fit into the scheme.  A teacher is a gameplayer who plans the experiences in such a way that the results allow the teacher to construct a meaningful connection between and the experience, the classroom and future experiences.  The experientuall objectives permits her to devise an outline for subject or subjects taught, include instructional methods to be used in bringing forth the objective, experience on how to manage behavior during the lesson, and what the equipment, if any, is appropriate or obtaining the desired objectives. \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 And Dewey relates to experience to the three major areas.  Freedom can be defined as that intrinsic need of all human beings to explore, express, an experiment in those areas that the individual to deems necessary for himself.  Within the classroom the teacher can and should provide an environment that allows the outward expression of that inward need.  By doing so, the teacher can gain a better and more complete understanding of her students.  This is accomplished by the students as they have free reign of the classroom in whch the student uses this free time to draw, as the teacher takes note, or the student manipulates her environment with gadgets, she takes note.  Likewise if they play, dance, and read or skip, she watched only makes a note of each child and a preference in express freedom.  Many times they are unstructured freedom gives a clear picture of the student's needs, likes and dislikes than would any other method for gaining the data.  And plowing the student to have the freedom to explore and experience the classroom less the student feel as if he is a genuine and necessary ingredient in the purpose of the classroom at whole.  By providing time and freedom to incorporate experiences in the classroom, the teacher gives the added benefit of health to those individuals she calls peoples.  Mixing intellectual and physical activities within the school day brings about a \b0 healthier\b  body through movement and a healthier mind through concrete experiences to define the concept.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 In all of this freedom it must be understood and the teacher has the responsibility to frame the freedom so that the child learns to exercise self control and so that the error if the QEP impulses and desires that, ordered by their intellect.  There is nothing wrong with requiring a code of conduct to be used during free time.  This freedom to gain experience is in the classroom should not be construed as a free for all.  Manners are a must as Dewey claims that very \b0 oil up that lubricates the machinery of experience.  Once again, it is important to note, that dooley's intent was to connect students prior experience as a springboard for future experience in a way to that develops self control while considering how students use the environment.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Experience relates to social control in the same weight that the child participating for instance relates to the game plan.  Every participating member of the team knows the framework for rules of the sport.  They accept them readily up the the calls they know that all team members on both sides want to follow them without regard to team standing, collar of uniform or location of home.  The team member is also aware of his responsibility in upholding the rules. He is then able to accomodate individual differences and as long as the date the rules are not broken.  In the experiences are set with the framework and it that every one understands from the beginning, social control is maintained as all individuals are responsible participants of a fair system of mutual acceptance of all involved.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
And Dewey relates experience to subject matter in this way, first the teacher needs to provide those experiences that start within the scope of experiences her specific aged students have already enjoyed, using everyday occurrences that the child can relate to as he or she first begin.  Then as you planned future experiences for the child you gradually progress to the point where  until it develops into a subject orientation much as a skilled mature adult learner would.  The shoul be stated that there is no injustice served to a particular academic discipline if it is integrated and/or extended to other disciplines.  And for example your social studies class and regarding Columbus sailing from Spain in 1492 can easily be extended to science and ocean currents.  It is not by chance that dear Christopher came upon land without understanding ocean currents this could be further extended to map by having the students find the mileage of voyage using a map with scale of miles the same lesson to be further extended to help when you obtain required data on to the available of food on the voyage the vitamin deficiency over a period of time.  And finally, a child who write about the data he has acquired through the lessons.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 Dewey believes that the scientific method of it is a plausible way of relating subject matter to experience.  The first step in the scientific method requires that one collect data or make observations.  This step is best obtained through experience.  The up to child observes up the at the green leaves a on his aspen tree terms of yellow a in autumn.  He inserts other a the stones and that do likewise.  He is collecting data through experience an.  QEP and afterwards the students form a A hypothesis a and an up or generalization about the data.  He does this move by thinking to himself or writing down "all teree leavers turn yellow in autumn. Once he summarized shis data in this ewaay he is ready for the thrid step that requies tesing of the phypothesis by expreimenting. .  This child is to try to falsify his present hypothesis and up the QEP so the you can redefine and reconstruct your data in a way that allows you to reevaluate your present hypothesis file another more complete hypothesis.  This young person a observes through experience and that some leaves turn red or brown while others remain green upfid and.  The test necessitates that the student change his original hypothesis.  And the approach can be applied and to mathematics are in the field or any field.  This type of hands on meaningful learning requires the student to reorganize their schema in a PC and Piaget fashion for a accommodating the new learning or information.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
The experience as it relates to these three major areas of education, if the freedom of social control and subject matter must have a purpose to.  This purpose has to come from the individual for their intrinsic desire to learn about their environment.  To this the purpose is also related to what the learner is able to experience without harm to self or others.  It is ghoulish to think they can and guard in a GED key it would be able to understand the concept of the earth rotating on its axis, as this is not as necessary part of their world.  However, they can understand that quite to the finally, the purpose of experience p remains of bright as it stands around his access the calls as part of their scope of experience.  The finally, the purpose of experience has to have a plan of action.  For the elementary student, it is the teacher who has a responsibility to devise and implement this plan, for meeting the necessary connected experiences that bring about the desired concept\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
William A. Brownell\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 During the 1920s and 1930s arithmetic instruction was dominated by an emphasis on the drill theory of instruction and the doctrine of social utility.  The repetition of facts was the prescribed method of teaching and memorization of the chief learning process.  It was the work of William A. Brownell was contributing significantly to challenging his point of view.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Brownell was born in 1895 into \b0 Pennsylvania at E earned a Ph.D.  In 1926 from the University of Chicago.  Brownell served University of Illinois, Cornell university, University of Michigan, George Peabody college for teachers, duke university, and northwestern university as professor of educational psychology he concluded his teaching career thus serving as professor of educational psychology at the University of California at Berkeley 1950 to 1962.  The major focus of brown ALS research dealt with thestudy of arithmetic in the lower grades if an\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Your brows career in education that prevailing psychology of learning was Thorndike's the connectionism.  Underlying this theory was the assumption that all learning consist of the establishment of bonds between specific stimuli and specific responses.  An example of an SR IP bond is the response four associated with the stimuli to N2.  Every arithmetic fact represented such a bond and students were expected to master innumerable bonds without regard to understanding the concept.  Furthermore, the specific bonds to be taught were precisely those which for most often used by adults.  Hits, it was the teachers role to identify for the child tht sr  bonds, have students make responses under the conditions of reward(success) and punishment (failure), and you still in practice until the connections were fully established.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Brownell rejected connectionism and roll theory as A sole principle method of instruction and based his objections on the following grounds: one and the learning of such a magnitude of isolated facts predetermined the student to failure 2) drill is not help the two the development of meaning; 3) facts learned in the isolation team in the forgotten rapidly and providing inadequate basis for for the learning.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Evidence from several sources have demonstrated that run out was not alone in perceiving any needed for change and teaching and learning of arithmetic.  During the period between 1920 and 1940 there was much criticism regarding instruction in a variety of subjects call in elementary school.  Traditional programmes of instruction had not produced the kind of arithmetical competence required for intelligent adjustment to society.  Brownell cited four kinds of evidence of the weakness of arithmetic instruction in elementary schools: 1) the incompetence of adults in practical activities2) test evidence and testimony of the armed forces; 3) the experence of theaher of lmathemitcs ove the lemnetary school level; and 4) error analysis studies and resulty whic disclosedthat children wre employing faulty procedufre when faced with mathematicsl situations (p.259).\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 browenll advocated anview of artihmeitc learning designed to encorage the nderstandin oof artimetic. The theroy that he endorsed, "maeaning"thoeroy, was based on theree underlying assumptions. The first assuption was that artitmetic was an understandable system that needed to make "sense" to studnet in order to be adequeately learned. The stymbos do not stantd alone, they have referentds, and students should know the sybonls, what they stand for, and how thery are related toother mathematicsl ideas,. The second assupmtdions was what Brownell temed dthe rogdressive nature of learning. He vieewwed learng a as a growth proces which occurs by progression  dhtroguh a series of steps that reperesnet increasingly complex levels of thinking . The final assumpitdon involves variation and gerealization as the underlying processes by which people learn.  Brownell beliedved that students mjsust be provided numeirous and varying experiences with number concepts that are to be leanrd. Yhis , according to Browness, should resulty in student being able to gernalixe their knowledfe to new situations. \lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 Brownell is credited with writing the first comprehensive statement of the meetings theory of arithmetic to in his chapter " psychological considerations and learning and teaching of arithmetic", in the 10th year book and and of the if SP NCTM (NCTM 1970).  The huron L asserted that meeting.  Concedes arithmetic as a closely knit system of interrelated ideas concepts and processes.  Moreover he characterized arithmetic learning is not mere mechanical figuring but as N intellectual grasp of mathematical relationships and the ability of an FCAT handle arithmetical situations by comprehending their mathematical and practical significance.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Although brown out believe that children should see both sense in usefulness in the mathematics they encounter, he was careful in defining what he meant by meaningful arithmetic.  He stated that a child will have a meaningful arithmetic experience when the situation where with which he deals make sense mathematically thus in order for a child behave and meaningfully in a quantitative situation H. Al needs to know what to do (meaningss of arithmetic up) and when assup and how to do it " meaningss for arithmetic).\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Brownell proposed that activities and experiences and D used which will carry the child from naive the behavior two more mature methods of dealing with numbers.  With a teacher serving as a guide, students must be allowed to progress through stages at a pace at which to learn is able to grasp the meaning of what he or she is taught.  This made to involve the use of concrete materials -" the sensory aides" and many filters which help promote the meaning of a topic.  At higher levels of understanding students will be directed to rediscover some of the same relations in greater levels of abstractions (QEPBrownel upl, 1935,p. 23).  Up\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Teaching for meaning, succ accord to Brownell, what will require altering the pace of instructiono which he considered too fast.  Since he'd beliedved that instruction that occurrd in stages, the andthe stage asserting dependent upon each other, a teacher will have to vary the instructional pace in order to make sure the student's up and up to advanced through the stages properly to.  Hence the development of arithmetical concepts it takes time, but this time is not lost since the understanding of lore concepts makes higher level concepts it easier to understand.  Another concern of Brownell is a type of practice of students are required to do.  Brownell recommended two types of practice varied and repetitive.  The first IP practice, very practice, A's to students be progressing from one stage to the next up a forcing the learner to make generalizations.  It involves using a variety of instructional methods to enhance the quality of process.  In contrast, repetitive practice helps to student become proficient at a particular level of learning.  Thus, Brownell was not opposed to using drill when children have the understanding and maturity of fault which all to be habituated.  Up\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Brownell fell that the process of obtaining answers is as important as an octane quit and correct complications and student errors and allow teachers to trace their thinking process is.  He maintained that most errors and mathematics are the result of incomplete understanding, and must be analyzed to determine the type of remediation the student needs.  Moreover, it is the teachers responsibility to determine the place at which to student encounters the local K and a guide him from that level to the appropriate level of understanding .\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Brownell's the view of the nature and purpose of arithmetical learning intended to make go in and arithmetic more a challenge to the intellect and less to memory.  It \b0 taught for meeting arithmetic will be better retained and more easily transfer it to hire order tasks.  Understanding include students with the means to rehabilitate skills that are temporarily with the Anne increases the likelihood that arithmetical ideas and skills will be applied with compliments in qualitative situations\b .  And if the and if SP\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 An\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Edward L. Thorndike (1924) - Connectionisrm (S-R bonds)\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 "learing is theormatin of connectives or bonds between situations and responses, that the satisfyingness of the reulf is the chief force that form them and that jhhabit rules the realm of dthought as trulyy ans as fully as in ther realm of actions."\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Conectiist S-R bonds led to deemphasis of other aspects of arithmetic and distrust of lotical and mathemaical struture as a basis for the structure of learning. \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
Skinner \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
B. F. Skinner was born on march 20th, 1904 in QEP Sus upquehanna, Pennsylvania, the skinner interred to graduate programs in psychology at Harvard, where he followed in the behaviorist tradition of john B.  Watson.  Skinner completed his doctorate in 1931, and then spent five more years at Harvard doing research.  He then moved on to University of Minnesota, where he worked until 1945.  During the war years to scan a work on operanlty training pigeons to guide missiles, and even though his system and worked amazingly well the military chose not to pursue the possibility.After the war scare moved on to university in Indiana, and in 1948, at the Harvard where he remained until his retirement in 1974.  Skinner remained a professor and a professor emeritus at Harvard until his death.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 The basis of skinner beliefs is a concept of operanlty conditioning.  As a behavioristdhe the the believed into oberving only what can be seen are measured, and the and applying the scientific method to describing for controlling behavior.  An operant QEP is it any act which an organism may be expected to complete in a given environment.  Operant conditioning involve selecting the operant the experimenter wishes to be performed and the and reinforcing that behavior so that its completion becomes more probable skinner used positive and as a means to control behavior.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Skinner became very interested in the application of Operant conditioning to education.  He believed that American schools could become much better through the use of this concepts.  Skinner believes that a student needed to be reinforced constantly, while most schools the students to learn to a threat of punishment.  As a behavioristd, and skinner the silly that reinforcement would work much better than punishment, the the the main object of his idea was that the use of physical reinforce ers'and worked well with humans the(the best of food, sacs, and money).  But skinner sees man is more complex and notes, " the human organism is reinforced simply by being effective.  It is reinforcing to the student to be right, but date contemporary classroom she is seldom right and therefore receives little reinforcement.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Although most teachers provide motivation through phrases such as Very good for a nice work, scare finds this reinforcement to be either too little or too late.  If homework is headed back a day after it is turned in, the effect of the reinforcement is lost.  Similarly, skinner a lead that students need to be reinforced a tremendous number of times, in fact, he estimated that students need reinforcement between 25,000 to 50,000 times in the first four years of schooling alone and no teacher can do that for every student.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Skinner solution to this problem is to teaching machine, which can range from the c that he rude machines that skinner himself developed, the workbooks designed to fall and scanners ideas on program learning on computers\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
The key to teaching to the lesson using the teaching machine is to program the instruction in the very small pieces of information and to let the student work through each a lesson piece by piece at his or her own rate typically each item, in programmed instruction is quite simple and there is a good bit of repetition of definitions and concepts to reinforce the ideas in the student's mind the reinforcement for the student is that the program is designed so the student will most often the right and he or she will discover that they are right immediately, either by having the computer tell them so or so by uncovering the answer in their workbook\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
A key facet up of skinner's method is that sense the materials are designed so that each student will get the vast majority of the question and right, the signing of grades will be determined by how far a student gets through the programme.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 Today, skinner program instruction is often viewed or seen IP up in contemporary mathematics classrooms to learn basic mathematics facts and skills and more.  However the approach has not proven particularly successful and in teaching concepts and moreover and higher level problem solving.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Skinner opposed discovery method cents " to make this student solve the problem of learning is to refuse to solve the problem of teaching. " Skinner urged that the teachers role was a guide to the point the student in that the right direction.  Skinner admired Polya's approach and suggest the use of Polya type hints like "do you know a related question?" The(Skinner, p thep.143) if the QEP at\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
David Ausubel\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
A particular model of instruction is Ausubel up's up(1968) advance the organizer model.  Advance organizers or concepts are ideas given to the learner prior to the material actually to be learned.  They serve to introduce topics are meant to bridge the gap between what the learner already knows and what he needs to know to learn the task at hand.  aScdvance organizers provided foundation upon which new material will be attached. Schemas the ofthe set of ideas in a person's memory to which newly learned to real will be a related.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Cognitive structure is vital to the foundation of an asp organizers.Ausubel believeed that meaningful school learning will take place only to the degree that new learning is related to existing cognitive structures.  In a sense new l up earning can be acquired by child only if there is an existing idea to which the new ideas can be attached.  The new ideas are incorporated into the up learners cognitive structure by attaching them to some existing structure and modifying this existing structure to accommodate the new.  This Pia upgetian the idea seems to suggest that a teacher must carefully evaluate children's existing concepts and intuitive notions so that new learning can be an extension of existing ideas.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Overalls this perspective makes it clear that the major consideration in teachers deliberations for choosing appropriate learning strategies and tasks is the problem of finding A kind of best fit between the structure of the past in the structure of the person's thinking that will result in learning and this requires that teachers must not only have a sufficient knowledge of mathematics and the good understanding of their students cognitive schema up to be able to recognize fit.  Thus teachers need to access students schemas up before attempting to extend students prior knowledge.  Hence, it isimportant alicence to discontinue a link and bass instructiono what they already know. \lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
It's up to the dominant paradigm to weld based in research literature is constructivism.  Researchers contend that knowledge cannot be directly imparted from teaching a student.  Rather, students must actively construct their knowledge of the world from their own perceptions and experiences, which are themselves mediated through previous knowledge (Simon, in 1995 close parentheses.  These beliefs suggest that, rather than simply accepting new information without question, and " students interpret everything they see and hear and then remembered new information in relation to what they already know" at any time, that knowledge we have constructed helps us to make sense of, interpret, and predict events in our experientalworld up.  \par
\lang1033\f2 THE VOCABULARY F JEROME s. BRUNER\par
1.  The embodiments\par
A) the concrete environment- enactive representation up\par
B) the semi concrete theembodiment -the ikonic presentation\par
C) abstract embodiment - symbolic represetnation\par
\par
2.\tab Modes of represnetation\par
A) enactive representation - represtain of knowdedge through actions on conrcre objects in order to facilitate learning\par
B) ikonic representatin - represnetion of knowldge of knowledge through pictures or mental images in order to facilitate learning\par
C) symbolic represtation - representation of knowledge thouggh language, symbols, or other abstrations in order to facilitate learning.\par
\par
THE VOCABULARE OF ROBER M. GAGNE\par
1.\tab Teachable objects- the direct and inditerrct objectios of mahtematics teaching\par
2.\tab Direct objects - facts, skills, concepts, and principles.\par
3. Indirect Objects - transfer of trainin, inquiry, ability, problem solving ability, self discipline, appreccitation\par
4. Phases of Learning - \par
A) apprehension - the learner's awareness of stimuli which are present in the learnig situation.\par
B) acquistion - the actual attainment of the facit, skill, concept, , a principle which is to be learned.\par
C) storage -  the retention of acquired knowledge\par
D) retreival-  the ability to recall information that has been acquired or stored in memory\par
\par
5.\tab  Learning types - \par
A.\tab SIGNAL LEARNING - INVOLUNTARY LEARNING WHICH RESULTS FROM AN EMOTIONAL RESPONSE TO SOME SDTIMULUS.\par
b.\tab  STIMILUS-RESPONSE LEARNING - VOLUNTARY LEARNING WHIH RESULSTS FROM A PHYSICAL response to some stiimulus\par
C. chaining - the sequentiaal connection of two or more previoulsy learned non-verbal S-R actions.\par
D.\tab verba chanining (verbal association) - the sequiential connedtion two or more previousl learned verbal S-R actions.\par
E.\tab discriminatin learning -  the ability to recognize differneces among various physical and conceptual objects.\par
F.\tab  concepet learning-  the ability to reognize common properties among objects or events and dto respond to them as a class.\par
G) rule learning - the ability to respond to a set of situations with a preconceived st of actins.\par
H) proble-solving - the ability to select and chain sets of rules in a manner unique to the learner which results in a new se of rules.\par
\par
THE VOCABULAR OF jEAN PIAGET\par
1.\tab Accomodation - the process whereby incoming knowledge forces aa change in or a refomulaton of the existing cognitive structure.\par
2.\tab Assimilation - the process whereby existing mental structures absorb anbd integrate incoming knowledge withut forcing a change in the mental structures.\par
3.\tab Cognitive sttructure - mental schema; the integrated and interconneced network of knoledge that the learner has processed and sdtored which can be recalled in varius forms.\par
4.\tab Stages of intellectual development\par
A) sensory-motor stage - the pre-verbal stdage between birth and dtow years in which tdhough comes from acctins and in which bjects can be thought of only in the  present.\par
B.\tab  preoperational stage  - the verbal stageof development between the ages of two and seven whic is characterized by a childs' inability to think abstractly.\par
C.\tab  concrete operational stage - the stage of development between the ages of seven and eleven in which the child is able to carry out mental transformations on objects.\par
D.\tab  formal operational statge - the stage of development usually beginning around age eleven inwhich one is able to reason dedutively with symbols alone as well as reflect on one's own thogught processes. \par
THE VOCABOLARY OF RICHARD SKEMP\par
1.\tab Inelligence A - one's innate learning ability.\par
2. Intelliigence B - one's ability to learn from experience or from one's ownenvironment\par
3.\tab Instrucmental understanding - in mathematics, knowing and using rules without reasons.\par
4.\tab Rational understanding - in mathematics, knowing which processes to use in a given situation as well as knowing why to use them. \lang9\f0\par
\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\fs22 The vocabulary of David P. Ausbel\par
1.\tab  \kerning0 Advanced organizer QEP- up to a general knowledge learned in advance of more de\tab tailed, specific knowledge that serves to anchor the main entering knowledge to\par
2.  The integrative reconciliation-a stage of supsumption theory in which recently learned knowledge of and becomes integrated withthe a previous learn knowledge of in such a way to go to the two are no longer discernible as separate ideas\par
3.  The progressive the differentiation- the eight supsumption theory term which refers to the presentation of the knowledge and in hierarchical levels 's abstraction and from less to seven to most specific in accordance with the organization in one cognitive structure\par
4.  Supsumption-a process of incorporating new knowledge into the cognitive structure.\kerning1\f0\par
The the belief that memory has a distinct structure is a link to the called up for stressing mathematical connections.  It seemed the into relations of topics help students to connect entities.  Up teaching must expose students to a variety of example of a concept.  It is important that teaches recognize that mathematical concepts had a variety of representations-concrete, semi-concrete, and abstract.  Multiple representations up of mathematical notions is an important topic and in the field of mathematics up education and today in both research and practice.  Improving students' ability to move among numeric, symbolic, and graphical representations of mathematical concepts and are explicit objectives in the NCTM a standards (NCTM a, 1989).  The standards recommend that multiple representations are and the incorporated and as a central theme of mathematics.  Use of technology in the mathematics classroom are can enhance students' understanding of connections between multiple representations of concepts.  Moreover, and students come to some schools with a variety of experience with A variety of experience with imagery or representations that can be exploited in teaching them and mathematics.  Hence, students need material, pictures and symbols to help build connections.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
In order for students to construct their own knowledge rather than passively receive information, it isimportant for them to actively engage in mathematics learning.  Hence, instruction should focus less on rote learning all facts and algorithms and more all that conceptual u nderstanding and problem-solving.  Experience is that engage students in developing  thinking and reasoning, providing opportunities to ask questions, making conjectures, or posing problems are much more likely to enable students to construct knowledge.  According to Vygotsky (1962) up, verbal interaction is important in the process up of constructing knowledge.  Activities that provide an environment where students feel safe two explored, conjectured, reason, and to communicate with and about mathematics (NCTN ,1989) students need to fill save in discussing differences in how they perceive the concepts or how they would approach problems.  Study showed that students working in small groups doing investigations and projects using cool such as calculators, and other materials can enhance their understanding of concepts and develop positive attitudes toward mathematics.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Animportant aspect of an a constructive his teaching requires that students that, or reflected thinkers.  Providing an environment in the classroom conducive to encourage and of reflective thinking should help bring down the emotional barriers (mathematics frustration and concurrent lack of a con upfidence) up up that prevent mathematics learning.  A this can be achieved by helping students discover basic patterns and by encouraging them to look for patterns for themselves.  DNE to enable students to become more reflective they should be provided opportunities to categorizes, edit, IP to critique, and analyze their own work.  Those who are able to review their own performance and explore reasons for choosing processes are aware of how much they know if it up and what is required to know more.  Students need dito be taught at home to look back when they finish working a problem and talk about what they did go home with what we might do, a what worked, though whether did not work and and one or why not.  Students can be encouraged to monitor their thinking to end it would come more conscious of their actions.  While coaching students activities such as thinking aloud and writing assignments to are effective in helping students monitor their own learn.Not only that students must be held accountable for the quality of their thinking using intellectual standards and Socratic questioning.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Learning environments must b created that enable both students and teachers to become reflective practitioners and problem solvers in their own right .  A growing literature on reflective practice in teaching has emphasized the importance of fostering a reflective stance among students and teachers (Bean & Zulich, 1989).  Reflective teachers constantly assess and modify their actions and behavior in order to make student learning more meaningful. \lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 A summary of recommendations for teaching are as follows:\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 1.  Courses should place a greater emphasis on the meaning of mathematical concepts in the use of mathematical methods to analyze problems and de-emphasize the manipulative skills and the application of rules.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 2.  The the teachers should place greater responsibility for learning in the hands of students for exploring the problem solutions and to read more critically, work independently with less prescriptive guidance from the teacher and text, to analyze problems and explore their own  solutions.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 3  Teachers need to use  multiple approaches in the analysis of new concepts and problems, investigating them from a variety of representations.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 4.  Teachers should place a greater emphasis on the solutions of realistic problems as a means for a motivating mathematical concepts and.  Students should be enabled to solve, develop, and the debate interesting mathematical problems, rather than simply to follow prescribed procedures to arrive at right answers.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 5. And the computers and calculators should be used appropriately and often.  And\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 6. Teaching should be interactive and involve of the communication.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 7. To encourage reflection, the strong writing component should be included to serve as an assessment device for the coach and as a tool for student reflection and knowledge construction.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
\b Concept learning and Schemas\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Best teaching practices deal with concept attainment.  This involves having students analyze structures, generalized previously learn content and two new content to a construct more complex abstractions.  It involves over to entities and ascends that students must go through certain covert mental operations to perform the activities teachers in the same questions to guide the student from one phase of the activity into the next.  Bruner "1960" claim that knowledge that the learner has constructed for himself is more assessable for retrieval and more likely to be applied correctly inappropriate situations.  A\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Information processing comprises psion series of learning that are distinct from but generally compatible with constructivism.  One fundamental assumption underlying information processing theory has been that human call is somewhat analogous two computer programs: both take and information, process it and make decisions based on the data.  Eight T component of information processing has been that knowledge is organized and stored in the human mind in an orderly system analogous the two the way in which instructions are stored in computers.  Prior knowledge is organized into networks called schemas, and as new information assimilated, the networks are modified.  Schemas help select and interpret new incoming information so that is consistent with one's preexisting schemas.  Piaget and other researchers thebelive the that when the information is inconsistent than the learner must accommodate the new information through reorganizing his or her schema.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Since research on information processing suggests that people store and retrieve knowledge by relating to other knowledge, implications for teaching is that concepts are best remembered if they are called in relation to already stored not knowledge or information.  Thus teachers need two introduce new information in terms of knowledge already possess the students a hence it is important to listen to students continually and bass instruction on what they already know.  Seen in a relations of topics in word to connect entities.  By helping students make appropriate connections, it is easier for them to understand and stored new knowledge.  Ausebel to and com to structure is vital to the foundation of advanced organizers and\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
three major learning theories in mathematic\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\b\f2\fs22 D\lang9\f0 rill theory\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Arithmetic consists of a body un\lang1033\f2 r\lang9\f0 elated fa\lang1033\f2 cts\lang9\f0 , procedures and skills.  This student learns the facts/procedures and acquire skill to recalling and using them through repeating them over and over again.  Eventually, the student is able to recall mathematical facts and procedures immediately and correctly.  This student gain skill and mastery of mathematical processes most economically through full formal repetition up.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Drill.  Must be rejected as a sole or principle methods of instruction in mathematics.  It is objectionable on the following grounds:\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
1.  The learning of such a magnitude of isolated facts and procedures predetermind student failure as such a task\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 2.  The facts learn my solution to beB forgotten rapidly.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 3.  Repetition does not contribute to the development of meaning, understanding, or significance.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
4 and.  The such isolated learning provides an inadequate base for for the learning.\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Incidental learning theory\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
Mathematics is learned better it not systematically \b0 taught our.  Its students will learn as much mathematics as they need through incidental experience and natural behavior in everyday situations.  As the need arises through experience, the child will develop and number concepts and the skills and the fundamental operations and.  The child will discover uses of mathematics in problematic situations encountered and will attain proficiency in adjusting to quantitative situations as needed up.\f1   Learning is thought to occur when a situation presents itself the in which the learning as needed.  Learning, then, is considered A byproduct of the performance or witness of some task or activity a\lang1033\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Incidental learning theory must be rejected as a sole or principal  method of instruction in mathematics.  This theory is that objectionable for the following reasons:\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
1.  The learning mathematics incidentally is impractical\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 2.  Identifying mathematics incidentally in everyday situations and ordering helpful learning situations is a typical task.  This requires insight and knowledge of mathematics and psychology usually beyond the expertise of the average teacher.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22 3.  The a large body of mathematics is likely to be unlearned.  \lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\fs22 Go\par
Up up this theory is very similar to social meaning theory up a theory base on the belief that mathematics will be more meaningful as a learner candor of observe an anti use mathematics in related social situations.  A\f0\par
Meaning theory\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
And mathematics is a closely knit, quantitative system of understandable ideas, principles and processes.  Meaning is found in the structure and inner relationships and of mathematics itself.  Mathematics is a system and must be called as a system of--not as isolated facts or as an outgrowth of an individual's everyday and are experienced.  Mathematics involves symbols and assemble refers to something else on itself.  Meaning is a substitution process and--that which is rated into a symbol by a person.  And\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Meaningful learning provides a foundation.  And a structure that facilitates learning and increases the chance that the learner will be able to transfer this knowledge to problem-solving situations.  Mathematics learned and meaningful context is that retained and more easily rehabilitated them mechanically learn mathematics.\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Meaning theory recognizes that following the development of meaning and understanding, a drill activities are needed to provide practice for increased proficiency.  The core learning through concentrated practice, AIDS and retaining what has been learned and makes responses more efficient and accurate.  Also, meaning theory recognizes the value of real-world experiences for motivation, enrichment, an application.  The most balanced and effective if philosophy of teaching mathematics appears to be that of teaching for meaning and understanding a the along with A judicious use of drill and problem-solving experiences and an\lang1033\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22 SOME PRINCLPLES OF TEACHING MATHEMATICS MEANINGFULLY\lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\lang9\b\f0\fs22\par
1)\lang1033\f2  symbols are the and products in mathematics-the records of something that has happened.  The records should not be confused with the thing itself.  The symbols are not the mathematics.\par
2) and mathematics is represented in three embodiments: \lang9\kerning0\b0 enactive, ikonic, and symbolic.  Enactive and iconic representations provides our minds with the stuff the to interpret the symbols are eyes see.  Without these representations in our mind, the symbols are meaningless marks to be moved about on paper.\par
3).  Manipulative materials are themselves symbolic an abstract.  Although less so than the usual symbols we use.  Use of manipulatives alone does not ensure understanding.\par
4).  Up up mathematics arises out of real-world situations and needs.  Thus, and they're real order of teaching is:\par
Real-world situations-enacted and ikonic-symbolic (through records).\kerning1\b\f0  \lang1033\b0\f1\fs24\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\kerning0\f3\fs22                                                     (through manipulatives)\par
Thus, working with symbolic records alone makes no sense that we don't remember that they refer to some real world situations.  (in fact, we will see that most of us use fractions incorrectly the calls  we do not know to what they refer).\par
5.  The any symbolic records we teach is only one of many we could use of the real-world situation is always the same:\par
One set of counting numbers-many ways to symbolize them (roman numerals, etc.)\par
Limited number of real-world-many of the algorithms for doing operations addition, subtraction, etc.\par
6).  Up up teaching "our" up standard of algorithms for whole numbers involve several steps.  Out of rhythms dependent on our way of record numbers up-place value.  Therefore, any model or manipulative of an algorithm must use objects in groups of 10.\par
7) important to developing algorithm for whole numbers(or fractions or whatever) it is:\par
a) a starting with a real end up world situations of the operations (e.g., The up sharing; take away; finding the difference)\par
b) using a manipulative model to develop enactive algorithms that mirrors the symbolic one.  A\par
c0 uses verbalizations and explanations.\par
d) write written records.\par
e) the developer connections between the movement of the enactive algorithm and the written record\par
f) shape and improve th algorie efficiency with records.\par
g) Wean the student away from the enactive algorithm up the two the written record alone\par
h) make sure the student continues to recall and connect in their mind the enactive movement and physical situation for each symbolic gesture and and and the algorithm up up up.  Up\par
\par
}
 